# endless bento!
It's a clone of the bento puzzle minigame from *Nancy Drew: Shadow at the Water's Edge*. I haven't seen this type of puzzle anywhere else (if you have let me know) so I made a browser version that can be played anywhere, because these puzzles are a lot of fun.

## How to play
### Rules
You are given a 3x3 grid of squares. Your goal is to fill these squares with tiles in such a way that all the clues are met and no shape-color combination appears more than once. The clues appear either to the left or on top of the grid (depending on your screen aspect ratio) and show you select portions of the solution's grid. You have to deduce where exactly in the grid these clues go based on the other clues. A clue may tell you the shape of a square, the color of a square, or both. If a clue contains empty squares that means that there is a tile in that spot, but it could be anything. For example if you have a clue that is a 3x2 grid and has 3 circles on the top row and 3 empty squares on the bottom row, you know that the 3 circles are going to be in a row and they are either going to be in the top or middle row (they can't go on the bottom).

### Controls
Beneath the grid there is a row of buttons you can press. You can select the color and shape that you want separately and then click on the grid to place that tile. Depending on the "autoselect mode" that you have set (under menu) the game may select a new color or shape automatically after you place a tile. You can delete a tile by right-clicking, but there is also a delete button in case you are playing on a touch screen. Although each shape-color combination is only going to be used once in solving the puzzle, the game does not check this for you and you can (incorrectly) place multiple of the same tile.

## How are the puzzles generated?
The puzzles are actually not randomly generated but rather randomly chosen from a list of 20 puzzles. This is actually the same way it was done in the original game (special thanks to [this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MdZdbBqDUuM) video for helping me figure this all out, I wouldn't have been able to make this without those solutions). In order to create the illusion that there are more than 20 different puzzles, the game randomly assigns a different color and shape to the colors and shapes described in the predefined solution (does this make sense) and also randomly arranges the clues on the screen. 10 of the 20 puzzles are Junior level difficulty, and the other 10 are Senior level difficulty. If you want only Junior or only Senior puzzles to be chosen you can change this under menu. You can also choose random in which case every puzzle has an equal chance of being chosen.

## Misc
My code is pretty disgusting looking (or is it? I am not a professional) but it is all here if you want to look at it. In the future I will likely update this so that it uses cookies to save your settings and the state of the current puzzle. It would also be cool to make it so the puzzles are actually randomly generated but I would need to look at the current solution set and clues to figure out exactly how that could be done. Of course generating a random solution is easy, the tricky part is generating clues that allow the puzzle to be solved without guessing but also without being too easy. Another thing that would be cool to add is puzzles greater than 3x3, but I would again need a better solution generation system before that could be done.
